---
title:        "Books I read in 2024"
# jekyll-seo-tag
description:  "Just a list of books and some little thoughts about them."
author:       "ruhee"
---

This year, I read:

1. Elise Hu - _Flawless: Lessons in Looks and Culture from the K-Beauty Capital_
   > Culturally fascinating! I learned about this book from [Jessica DeFino's anti-beauty-industry newsletter](https://jessicadefino.substack.com/) and found it a really interesting perspective on K-beauty, cultural norms, and the performances we all do in our lives to project certain ideals.

1. Arielle Greenberg - _Superfreaks: Kink, Pleasure, and the Pursuit of Happiness_
   > Maybe a fine 101 book, but if this interests you you should probably just read [Leigh Cowart's _Hurts So Good_](https://www.hachettebookgroup.com/titles/leigh-cowart/hurts-so-good/9781541798021/?lens=publicaffairs) instead (also referenced by Greenberg's book!)

1. Kyle Chayka - _Filterworld: How Algorithms Flattened Culture_ (audio)
1. Britney Spears - _The Woman in Me_ (audio)
    > The audiobook is read by Michelle Williams and is honestly an amazing experience of the book. Justice for Britney. 


1. Bethany McLean and Joe Nocera - _All the Devils are Here: The Hidden History of the Financial Crisis_ (audio)
1. Claudia Dey - _Daughter_
1. Dana K. White - _Decluttering at the Speed of Life_
1. Naomi Klein - _Doppelganger: A Trip Into the Mirror World_ (audio)
1. Mark Kurlansky - _Salt: A World History_ (audio)
1. Kristin Neff - _Self-Compassion_
1. China Miéville - _Embassytown_
    > This is among my favourite Miéville so far, which is saying a lot.

1. Miriam Toews - _Women Talking_
1. Stephanie Pearl-McPhee - _All Wound Up: The Yarn Harlot Writes for a Spin_
1. Dolly Alderton - _Good Material_
    > One of my favourite reads of the year. Just so human and funny and full of feelings. It's so weird to me when people criticize books solely because "the main character is unlikeable" - surely there is more room for nuance than that? This main character is not altogether likeable and I really enjoyed reading about him all the same.

    
1. Carol S. Dweck - _Mindset: The New Psychology of Success_
    > I was convinced "growth mindset" was a tech bro concept (you know, constant unsustainable startup growth, maximizing shareholder value, always be hustling) but in fact it is not. "Growth mindset" and "fixed mindset" really just refer to the way you think about your basic qualities (can they be changed?) and subsequently how you look at the potential new experiences can bring you. This book genuinely changed the way I think, and if you are a perfectionist or you're really hard on yourself and find it hard to be open to new things (because what if you fail at them?) this is a really useful framing. (Goes very well with _Self-Compassion_ above)

1. Bill Buford - _Among the Thugs_ (audio)
    > Very of-its-time and sometimes in a bad way (a few terms used in the book made my eyes bug out a bit) but overall a breathtaking work of journalism. Buford embeds with football hooligans in the UK for years to try to understand the culture. He's beaten up by police in Italy during a riot and describes it in searing detail. I've never read anything else like this. 

1. Ottessa Moshfegh - _Eileen_
    > I loved this. I don't even know what else to say about it other than I think you should definitely read it. 

1. Sheena Patel - _I'm a Fan_ 
    > Unreliable narration by a woman obsessed with someone who won't give her the love she wants. Painfully relatable at points. I found some of it heavy-handed when addressing certain broader topics but overall a really fun read and a format I enjoyed.

1. Haruki Murakami - _What I Talk About When I Talk About Running_
1. Martha Wells - _All Systems Red_ (Murderbot #1)
1. Arkady & Boris Strugatsky - _Roadside Picnic_
    > If you like the Southern Reach books, you should read this, which probably inspired them (or at least influenced them in some way).

1. N.K. Jemisin - _The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms_ (Inheritance #1)
1. N.K. Jemisin - _The Broken Kingdoms_ (Inheritance #2)
1. Keanu Reeves, China Miéville - _The Book of Elsewhere_
1. N.K. Jemisin - _The Kingdom of Gods_ (Inheritance #3)
1. Martha Wells - _Artificial Condition_ (Murderbot #2)
1. Sarah Jaffe - _Work Won't Love You Back: How Devotion to Our Jobs Keeps Us Exploited, Exhausted, and Alone_ (audio)
1. Monica Heisey - _Really Good, Actually_ 
1. Jon Krakauer - _Into Thin Air_ (audio)
    > I know I'm so late. This book is as harrowing as you might have thought, or maybe more so! 

1. Jeff VanderMeer - _Absolution_
1. David Graeber - _Debt: The First 5,000 Years_ (audio)
1. James Hamblin - _Clean: The New Science of Skin and the Beauty of Doing Less_
    > Another Jessica DeFino newsletter recommendation.

1. R.O. Kwon - _Exhibit_
1. Martha Wells - _Rogue Protocol_ (Murderbot #3)
1. Zoe Whittall - _No Credit River_
    > I just loved this, and it's one of the only books I've read that references COVID in a way that felt perfectly normal rather than jarring and unwelcome. I love Zoe Whittall's writing style, and the prose poetry memoir format was so immersive, especially since so much of it took place in the city I live in and know really well.

1. Katie Mack - _The End of Everything (Astrophysically Speaking)_ (audio)
1. Joseph Cox - _Dark Wire: The Incredible True Story of the Largest Sting Operation Ever_
